---
layout: default
title: Assignment
parent: MH3600 - Topology and Manifolds
nav_order: 1
---

# Take-home Assignment

{: .highlight }
> **Problem 1.**
>
> (i) Let $$Y$$ be a topological space. Show that $$Y$$ is Hausdorff if and only if the diagonal
>
> $$\Delta_Y=\{(y,y)|y\in Y\}\subset Y\times Y$$
> 
> is a closed subset of $$Y\times Y$$ with the Cartesian product topology.
> 
> (ii) Let $$X$$ and $$Y$$ be two topological spaces with $$Y$$ Hausdorff, and consider two continuous functions $$f, g\colon X\to Y$$. Show that $$Z\subset X$$ defined by
>
> $$Z=\{x\in X|f(x)=g(x)\}$$
>
> is closed in $$X$$.

_Solution._

{: .highlight }
> **Problem 2.**
> Let $$X$$ be a topological space.
>
> (i) Show that if a subset $$A$$ of $$X$$ is open if $$B$$ is a subset of $$X$$ with $$A\cap B=\emptyset$$, then $$A\cap\overline{B}=\emptyset$$, but $$\overline{A}\cap\overline{B}$$ is not necessarily empty.
>
> (ii) Show that
> * $$A\subset B$$ implies $$\mathrm{int}(\overline{A})\subset\mathrm{int}(\overline{B})$$ and $$\overline{\mathrm{int}(A)}\subset\overline{\mathrm{int}(B)}$$.
> * $$A$$ open implies $$A\subset\mathrm{int}(\overline{A})$$
> * $$A$$ closed implies $$\overline{\mathrm{int}(A)}\subset A$$.
>
> (iii) Find $$A\subset\mathbb{R}$$ such that $$A$$, $$\overline{A}$$, $$\mathrm{int}(A)$$, $$\mathrm{int}(\overline{A})$$, $$\overline{\mathrm{int}(A)}$$ are all distinct.

_Solution._

(i) Let $$x\in A$$. In order for $$x\in\overline{B}$$, all open subsets containing $$x$$ must intersect $$B$$. However, since $$A$$ is a valid neighborhood of $$x$$ and $$A\cap B=\emptyset$$, it must be that $$x\not\in\overline{B}$$. Therefore $$A\cap\overline{B}=\emptyset$$.

To show that $$\overline{A}\cap\overline{B}$$ may not be empty, we use the following counterexample.

Let $$X=\mathbb{R}$$ be equipped with the usual topology, $$A=(0,1)$$ and $$B=(1,2)$$. Then $$\overline{A}=[0,1]$$ and $$\overline{B}=[1,2]$$ are the closures of $$A$$ and $$B$$, and $$\overline{A}\cap\overline{B}=\{1\}\ne\emptyset$$.

(ii)
* We first prove that if $$A\subset B$$, then $$\mathrm{int}(A)\subset\mathrm{int}(B)$$. Let $$x\in\mathrm{int}(A)$$, then by definition $$x$$ belongs to an open subset $$C$$ such that $$x\in C\subset A$$. But since $$A\subset B$$, this subset $$C$$ is also contained in $$B$$. Hence, $$x\in\mathrm{int}(B)$$ by the definition of the interior, and $$\mathrm{int}(A)\subset\mathrm{int}(B)$$ as desired.
    * Tutorial 3.1.a states that if $$A\subset B$$ then $$\overline{A}\subset\overline{B}$$. Applying this with the above-proved result yields $$\mathrm{int}(\overline{A})\subset\mathrm{int}(\overline{B})$$.  
    * Since $$\mathrm{int}(A)\subset\mathrm{int}(B)$$, applying the result of tutorial 3.1.a yields $$\overline{\mathrm{int}(A)}\subset\overline{\mathrm{int}(B)}$$.
* Let $$x\in A$$, then since $$A\subset\overline{A}$$ we have $$x\in\overline{A}$$ as well. Furthermore, as $$A$$ is an open set contained in $$\overline{A}$$ and $$x\in A$$, $$x$$ must belong to the interior of $$\overline{A}$$. Hence $$A\subset\mathrm{int}(\overline{A})$$.
* As $$\mathrm{int}(A)\subset A$$, we apply the result of tutorial 3.1.a to get $$\overline{\mathrm{int}(A)}\subset\overline{A}$$. But $$A$$ is given to be closed, so $$\overline{A}=A$$ and we get the desired result of $$\overline{\int}(A)\subset A$$.

(iii) Let $$A=[0,1)\cup(1,2]\cup\{3\}\subset\mathbb{R}$$, then:
* $$\overline{A}=[0,2]\cup{3}$$,
* $$\mathrm{int}(A)=(0,1)\cup(1,2)$$,
* $$\mathrm{int}(\overline{A})=(0,2)$$,
* $$\overline{\mathrm{int}(A)}=[0,2]$$.

This is one such example where $$A$$, $$\overline{A}$$, $$\mathrm{int}(A)$$, $$\mathrm{int}(\overline{A})$$ and $$\overline{\mathrm{int}(A)}$$ are all distinct.

{: .highlight}
> **Problem 3.**
> Given a subset $$A\subset\mathbb{R}$$, we consider the associated subbasis
>
> $$\mathcal{S}_A=\{(-\infty, a)|a\in A\}\cup\{(a,\infty)|a\in A\},$$
>
> and we denote by $$\mathcal{T}_A$$ the topology generated by $$\mathcal{S}_A$$.
>
> (i) Describe explicitly a basis for the topology $$\mathcal{T}_A$$.
>
> (ii) Show that $$\mathcal{T}_A$$ is always contained in the usual topology $$\mathcal{T}_{\mathrm{usual}}$$ on $$\mathbb{R}$$, i.e. $$\mathcal{T}_A\subseteq \mathcal{T}_{\mathrm{usual}}$$.
>
> (iii) Determine necessary and sufficient conditions on $$A$$ for $$\mathcal{T}_A$$ to coincide with the usual topology $$\mathcal{T}_{\mathrm{usual}}$$ on $$\mathbb{R}$$, i.e. $$\mathcal{T}_A=\mathcal{T}_{\mathrm{usual}}$$.
>
> (iv) For which $$A$$ is $$\mathcal{T}_A$$ Hausdorff?
>
> (v) Let
>
> $$A=\mathbb{Z}\cup\left\{\frac{1}{n}\middle|n\in\mathbb{N}\right\}\subset\mathbb{R}.$$
>
> * Describe explicitly the topology $$\mathcal{T}_A$$ as well as a basis for it.
>
> * Study the convergence of the sequence $$x_n=\frac{1}{n}$$ in this topology.
>
> * Study the convergence of the sequence $$x_n=-\frac{1}{n}$$ in this topology.

_Solution._